How thick is a 2 x 4?;A piece of surfaced (sanded smooth) 2x4 lumber actually measures 1½ inches thick and 3½ inches wide. In rough-cut condition, a 2x4 is slightly less than 2 inches thick and approximately 4 inches wide. When wood is milled from a rough to a smooth surface, it loses about ¼-inch from each of its four sides.
What makes something acidic or basic?;When a hydrogen ion is released, the solution becomes acidic. When a hydroxide ion is released, the solution becomes basic. Those two special ions determine whether you are looking at an acid or a base. For example, vinegar is also called acetic acid.
What does it mean to have a key grip?;They constitute their own department on a film set and are directed by a key grip. Grips have two main functions. The first is to work closely with the camera department to provide camera support, especially if the camera is mounted to a dolly, crane, or in an unusual position, such as the top of a ladder.
Can you eat the skin of Camembert?;Yep, you can eat the rind of any soft-ripened cheese like Brie or Camembert. But just so you know: Sometimes it won't taste so good. "Soft cheese bruises like an apple," says Maxx Sherman, director of national sales for the Marin French Cheese Company, which makes a number of soft cheeses in Petaluma, California.
Where does bubble tea originate from?;Bubble tea, also known as pearl milk tea or boba milk tea, is a Taiwanese tea-based drink invented in Taichung, Taiwan, during the 1980s.
Are hedgehogs nocturnal?;Hedgehogs are primarily nocturnal, although, depending on the species, they may be more or less active during the day. The hedgehog sleeps for a large portion of the daytime either under cover of bush, grass, rock or in a hole in the ground.
What kind of bees can sting more than once?;Wasps and many bees can sting more than once because they are able to pull out their stinger without injuring themselves. Only honeybees have special hooks on their stinger that keep the stinger in the skin after a person is stung. The stinger gets torn out of the bee's body as it tries to fly away.
What year was the most babies born?;More babies were born in the United States in 2007 than any other year in the nation's history — and a wedding band made increasingly little difference in the matter. The 4,317,119 births, reported by federal researchers Wednesday, topped a record first set in 1957 at the height of the baby boom.
When were chamber pots used?;In the 19th century, water closets started to be more common than chamber pots, but chamber pots were still used until the mid-20th century. Today, they are used in countries that have no indoor plumbing. In North America and the UK, "potty" refer to the toilets made especially for potty training.
Why does ice cream make you thirsty?;Eating ice cream, in a sense, makes your body think it is dehydrated, and in a sense, I suppose it is. This is one of the reasons that diabetics are thirsty all the time. Diabetes causes high blood glucose, and that increased concentration of blood solutes makes the diabetic feel thirsty. In short: It's the salt.
Who said those who forget the past are doomed to repeat it?;Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. George Santayana (16 December 1863 in Madrid, Spain – 26 September 1952 in Rome, Italy) was a philosopher, essayist, poet and novelist.
Who is the most famous surrealist artist?;In 1941 during the run-up to the American involvement in World War II, Salvador Dali, who would become the world's most famous Surrealist, held a fundraising party for displaced European artists in California's Hotel del Monte.
Where do coconut crabs live?;Also known as the robber crab, the coconut crab is a species of terrestrial hermit crab found on islands across the Indian Ocean, parts of the Pacific Ocean and as far east as the Gambier Islands. The crab can weigh up to 9 lbs, reaching the upper size limit of terrestrial animals with exoskeletons.
Is Flemish and Dutch the same?;and yeah Flemish is a Belgian dialect of Dutch. so called, because the people in flanders who speak it are called Flemish. it's a dialect not a different language. there are differences yes, but same language.
Which Roosevelt is on Mount Rushmore?;The southeastern face of Mount Rushmore in South Dakota's Black Hills National Forest is the site of four gigantic carved sculptures depicting the faces of U.S. Presidents George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt.
What animals can not walk backwards?;Emus and kangaroos cannot walk backwards...
What percent of mammals are monogamous?;Monogamy is rare in mammals. Approximately only 3-5% percent of mammals are considered monogamous (Nair and Young), compared to about 90% of birds (Alcock, 366).
Who measured the speed of light?;The first true measurement of light-speed came in 1676 by a fellow named Olaf Roemer. He noted that the time elapsed between eclipses of Jupiter with its moons became shorter as the Earth moved closer to Jupiter and became longer as the Earth and Jupiter drew farther apart.
What percent of the population has 20 20 vision?;Only about 35 percent of all adults have 20/20 vision without glasses, contact lenses or corrective surgery. With corrective measures, approximately 75 percent of adults have this degree of visual acuity while the other 25 percent of the population just doesn't see very well, Dr. Johnson says.
Who does Jennifer Aniston play on friends?;Jennifer Joanna Aniston (born February 11, 1969) is an American film and television actress. She plays the role of Rachel Green on Friends, a role for which she won both an Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award.
Why do people say knock on wood?;One explanation states that the tradition derived from the Pagans who thought that trees were the homes of fairies, spirits, dryads and many other mystical creatures. In these instances, people might knock or touch wood to request good luck, or to distract spirits with evil intentions.
Why do cats rub their heads?;Cats have scent glands along the tail, on each side of their head, on their lips, base of their tail, chin, near their sex organs, and between their front paws. They use these glands to scent mark their territory. When the cat rubs you, he is marking you with his scent, claiming you as "his."
Where were the Articles of Confederation ratified?;After 16 months of debate, the Continental Congress, sitting in its temporary capital of York, Pennsylvania, agrees to adopt the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union on this day in 1777. Not until March 1, 1781, would the last of the 13 states, Maryland, ratify the agreement.
What is the book that the Statue of Liberty is holding?;The statue is of a robed female figure representing Libertas, the Roman goddess of freedom, who bears a torch and a tabula ansata (a tablet evoking the law) upon which is inscribed the date of the American Declaration of Independence, July 4, 1776.
What language did the Normans speak in 1066?;The Anglo-Norman dialect of Norman was a language of administration in England following the Norman Conquest. This left a legacy of Law French in the language of English courts (though it was also influenced by Parisian French).
Where is Snake Island?;Off-limits and full of venomous pit vipers, its nickname is frighteningly apt. Off the shore of Brazil, almost 93 miles away from São Paulo downtown, is Ilha de Queimada Grande.
How many pints of blood do you have in your body?;The average adult has about 10 pints of blood in his body. Roughly 1 pint is given during a donation. A healthy donor may donate red blood cells every 56 days, or double red cells every 112 days.
Is pure water a conductor?;Pure water is not a good conductor of electricity. Ordinary distilled water in equilibrium with carbon dioxide of the air has a conductivity of about 10 x 10-6 W-1*m-1 (20 dS/m). Because the electrical current is transported by the ions in solution, the conductivity increases as the concentration of ions increases.
Where is curling from?;Curling was invented in medieval Scotland, with the first written reference to a contest using stones on ice coming from the records of Paisley Abbey, Renfrewshire, in February 1541.
What did Walt Disney originally want to name Mickey Mouse?;When Walt Disney was in the process of creating Mickey Mouse, he suggested the name of his new character to be Mortimer Mouse. However, his wife, Lillian Disney, felt the name sounded too pompous, and suggested Mickey, instead.
Which island includes a bunch of bananas on its national flag?;The flag is blue with the Fijian arms drawn in gold and a carved whale tooth on a rope. Coat-of-Arms. According to Smith 1985, the specimens depicted in the Fijian coat-of-arms are three sugar canes, a coconut palm, a dove with olive branch and a bunch of bananas. The lion in the chief is holding a peeled coconut.
What were George Washington's teeth made of?;Over the years, Washington wore several sets of false teeth. Even though many people today believe that these teeth were made out of wood, there is no proof that he ever had wooden teeth. His dentures were made of many things. They were often a combination of human teeth, animal teeth, and ivory.
Who came up with the word Google?;Google came from the mathematical term googol. It's the number one followed by one hundred zeros. In its earliest version, Sergey Brin and Larry Page named their search engine "Back Rub." They changed the name to Google, which stems from the mathematical term "googol."
What was the statue of liberty for?;"The Statue of Liberty Enlightening the World" was a gift of friendship from the people of France to the United States and is recognized as a universal symbol of freedom and democracy. The Statue of Liberty was dedicated on October 28, 1886. It was designated as a National Monument in 1924.
How many teeth does a polar bear have?;A polar bear's head is oblong and relatively small compared to body size. The muzzle is elongated with a "Roman-nosed" (slightly arched) snout. Polar bears have 42 teeth, which they use for catching food and for aggressive behavior. Polar bears use their incisors to shear off pieces of blubber and flesh.
When was Philadelphia the capital of the United States?;This mansion at 6th & Market Streets served as the presidential mansion of George Washington and John Adams, 1790–1800. Philadelphia served as the temporary capital of the United States, 1790–1800, while the Federal City was under construction in the District of Columbia.
Can you eat the skin of Camembert?;Yep, you can eat the rind of any soft-ripened cheese like Brie or Camembert. But just so you know: Sometimes it won't taste so good. "Soft cheese bruises like an apple," says Maxx Sherman, director of national sales for the Marin French Cheese Company, which makes a number of soft cheeses in Petaluma, California.
When was the first Simpsons episode made?;The half-hour series premiered on December 17, 1989, with "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire", a Christmas special. "Some Enchanted Evening" was the first full-length episode produced, but it did not broadcast until May 1990, as the last episode of the first season, because of animation problems.
How thick is a 2 x 4?;A piece of surfaced (sanded smooth) 2x4 lumber actually measures 1½ inches thick and 3½ inches wide. In rough-cut condition, a 2x4 is slightly less than 2 inches thick and approximately 4 inches wide. When wood is milled from a rough to a smooth surface, it loses about ¼-inch from each of its four sides.
How many people are in the world right now?;According to the most recent United Nations estimates, the human population of the world is expected to reach 8 billion people in the spring of 2024. 7 Billion (2011) According to the United Nations, world population reached 7 Billion on October 31, 2011.
Is the sun a yellow dwarf star?;The sun is classified as a G-type main-sequence star, or G dwarf star, or more imprecisely, a yellow dwarf. Actually, the sun — like other G-type stars — is white, but appears yellow through Earth's atmosphere. Stars generally get bigger as they grow older.
Which is the largest state in the USA by area?;Alaska is the largest state in total area, land area, and water area. Despite being the second largest state, Texas is only 40% of the total area of largest state, Alaska. Montana is larger than every state it borders; only Alaska and Wyoming have a lower population density.
Who was the first president to win the Nobel Peace Prize?;Theodore Roosevelt was the first U.S. president to win a Nobel Peace Prize.
Who invented the hot dog?;The hot dog traces its lineage to the 15th-century Viennese sausage, or wienerwurst in German. Johann Georghehner, a butcher from the German city of Coburg, in Bavaria, is credited with inventing the “dachshund” or “little dog” sausage in the 17th century, and brought it to Frankfurt.
How many albums have kiss sold?;Kiss is an American hard rock band that formed in New York City, USA in 1973. The group has performed and recorded continuously since their formation. KISS has sold over 100 million albums worldwide and has been awarded 45 gold albums to date, and has certified sales of 19 million records in the U.S.
What great lake caught on fire?;When Lake Erie – or more exactly the Cuyahoga River which flows into Lake Erie – caught fire in 1969, it ignited a firestorm of public outrage over the indiscriminate dumping of sewage and industrial chemicals into the Great Lakes.
Do whales have a nose?;They have nostrils called blowholes. Over millions of years of evoloution whales and dolphins nostrils moved to the top of their head. This allows them to breath by surfacing instead of them sticking their whole head out of the water. The first thing a newborn dolphin must do is to go to the surface to breathe.
What does zip stand for in zip code?;“ZIP” is actually an acronym for Zone Improvement Plan. However, the USPS intentionally chose the acronym to indicate that mail travels more quickly when senders mark the postal code on their packages and envelopes. The general system of ZIP codes used today was implemented in 1963.
How many meters deep is the Grand Canyon?;The Grand Canyon is 277 miles (446 km) long, up to 18 miles (29 km) wide and attains a depth of over a mile (6,000 feet or 1,800 meters).
When was Philadelphia the capital of the United States?;This mansion at 6th & Market Streets served as the presidential mansion of George Washington and John Adams, 1790–1800. Philadelphia served as the temporary capital of the United States, 1790–1800, while the Federal City was under construction in the District of Columbia.
Why is it called the Lone Star State?;Texas is nicknamed the Lone Star State to signify Texas as a former independent republic and as a reminder of the state's struggle for independence from Mexico. The "Lone Star" can be found on the Texas state flag and on the Texas state seal today.
What did june carter play?;Valerie June Carter Cash (June 23, 1929 – May 15, 2003) was an American singer, dancer, songwriter, actress, comedian, and author who was a member of the Carter Family and the second wife of singer Johnny Cash. She played the guitar, banjo, harmonica, and autoharp, and acted in several films and television shows.
How many republics were in the soviet union?;In the final decades of its existence, the Soviet Union officially consisted of fifteen Soviet Socialist Republics (SSRs). All of them, with the exception of the Russian Federation (until 1990), had their own local party chapters of the All-Union Communist Party.
What animals change colors?;Furthermore, odds are that when you do see a chameleon change its color, it's probably trying to broadcast its mood rather than evade predators. Nevertheless, the animal kingdom is filled with amazing color-changers, several of which dramatically outdo the chameleon clan in the skill of rapid-fire camouflage.
Where did the word cookies come from?;The word “cookie” comes from the Dutch “koekjes” which came from the Dutch “koek”, meaning “cake”; cookie was introduced to English in the very early 18th century. It is thought this term caught on more in the United States due to the strong Dutch heritage in early America.
What was Muhammad Ali's original name?;Muhammad Ali, original name Cassius Marcellus Clay, Jr. (born January 17, 1942, Louisville, Kentucky, U.S.), American professional boxer and social activist. Ali was the first fighter to win the world heavyweight championship on three separate occasions; he successfully defended this title 19 times.
What caused the Leaning Tower of Pisa?;The Leaning Tower of Pisa took 344 years to build, beginning in August 1173. It began to lean in 1178 once construction on the second floor had begun. The lean was due to one side sinking into the soft ground.
How large is an oil barrel?;One barrel contains 42 gallons of crude oil from which, in the U.S., typically 19 gallons of gasoline are produced. In California, “additional other petroleum products such as alkylates” are added to the crude to create a “processing gain,” such that:
What diseases can you get from lack of vitamin C?;Scurvy is a disease caused by a diet that lacks vitamin C (ascorbic acid). Patients develop anemia, debility, exhaustion, edema (swelling) in some parts of the body, and sometimes ulceration of the gums and loss of teeth. The name scurvy comes from the Latin scorbutus.
What animals make up the platypus?;Platypus. An animal with a bill like a duck, a tail like a beaver, and feet like an otter sounds like something a mad scientist would create. Add to the list the ability to lay lizard-like eggs and shoot poison out of your foot, and you have a unique creature indeed.
Who is generally considered to be the first king of England?;Arguments are made for a few different kings deemed to control enough of the ancient kingdoms of the Anglo-Saxons to be deemed the first King of England. For example Offa, king of Mercia, and Egbert, king of Wessex, are sometimes described as kings of England by popular writers, but not by all historians.
How many presidents were only children?;No American president has remained an only child. All have had at least one full sibling, except for Franklin D. Roosevelt, Gerald Ford, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama, who have or had half siblings.
What is unincorporated territory?;Unincorporated territory is a legal term of art in United States law denoting an area controlled by the government of the U.S. "where fundamental rights apply as a matter of law, but other constitutional rights are not available".
Is Elton John a knight?;In 1996, Elton was appointed a CBE (Commander of the British Empire). On 24 February 1998 he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II, becoming Sir Elton John, in recognition of his contribution to music and fund-raising for AIDS charities.
Where is the biggest tree in the world?;The General Sherman is a giant sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum) tree located in the Giant Forest of Sequoia National Park in Tulare County, in the U.S. state of California. By volume, it is the largest known living single stem tree on earth.
What time is on the back of the Independence Hall 100 dollar bill?;The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse, according to the U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing, shows approximately 4:10 on the older contemporary notes and 10:30 on the series 2009A notes released in 2013.
When did Abraham Lincoln give the Gettysburg Address?;On November 19, 1863, President Abraham Lincoln delivered a short speech at the end of the ceremonies dedicating the battlefield cemetery at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. That speech has come to be known as the Gettysburg Address.
Which country has the most islands in the world?;The five main archipelagos are Indonesia, Japan, the Philippines, New Zealand, and the British Isles. The largest archipelagic state in the world, by area and population, is Indonesia. The archipelago with the most islands is the Archipelago Sea in Finland.
What species is a jelly fish?;All jellyfish are Cnidaria, an animal phylum that contains jellies, sea anemones, and corals, among others. There are more than 10,000 species of Cnidaria, and less than 4,000 of these are Medusazoa—those animals we think of as jellyfish. Those 4,000 jellyfish can be divided into four different groups.
Why do they add iodine to salt?;Iodised salt (also spelled iodized salt) is table salt mixed with a minute amount of various salts of the element iodine. The ingestion of iodide prevents iodine deficiency. Worldwide, iodine deficiency affects about two billion people and is the leading preventable cause of intellectual and developmental disabilities.
What year did Woodstock take place?;It was held at Max Yasgur's 600-acre (240 ha; 0.94 sq mi) dairy farm in the Catskills near the hamlet of White Lake in the town of Bethel, New York, from August 15 to August 18, 1969. Bethel, in Sullivan County, is 43 miles (69 km) southwest of the town of Woodstock, New York, in adjoining Ulster County.
Where was golf first played in the US?;It is thought that the first organized golf played in America was on Harleston Green, undeveloped pastureland near the corner of Pitt and Bull streets. In 1743, Charleston merchant David Deas received a shipment of 432 golf balls and ninety-six clubs from Scotland.
Why is the human body temperature 98.6?;Why the Human Body Temperature Is 98.6 Degrees. Casey Chan. Scientists have found the reason why our body temperature is 98.6° Fahrenheit (37°C). Apparently it's the perfect balance, as it's warm enough to prevent fungal infection but not so hot that we need to eat nonstop to maintain our metabolism.
What year was Santa Claus Is Coming To Town made?;Santa Claus Is Comin' to Town is a 1970 stop motion television special, made by Rankin-Bass. The film stars actor Fred Astaire as the narrator S.D. Kluger, Mickey Rooney as Kris Kringle/Santa Claus, Keenan Wynn as the Winter Warlock, and Paul Frees in various roles.
What is the name of Beethoven's only opera?;Beethoven's Fidelio premiered with great success in Vienna, on May 23, 1814. But Beethoven had been fine-tuning Fidelio for nearly 10 years. At its debut in 1805, Beethoven's opera was called Leonore, and it flopped.
Who was the third man on Apollo 11?;The successful completion of the first manned circum-lunar flight was followed by the announcement of the Apollo 11 crew of Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins.
When did Abraham Lincoln give the Gettysburg Address?;On November 19, 1863, President Abraham Lincoln delivered a short speech at the end of the ceremonies dedicating the battlefield cemetery at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. That speech has come to be known as the Gettysburg Address.
How many watts does a string of Christmas lights use?;A 100-count string of incandescent mini lights runs at 40 watts, while a 70 count of 5mm Wide Angle LEDs is approximately 4.8 watts total. In fact, because incandescent wattage is 80-90% more than LED wattage, the cost to power an incandescent can be up to 90x greater than powering an LED.
How many people were in the band Nirvana?;Nirvana started in Aberdeen, Washington in 1987 when singer Kurt Cobain and the bassist Krist Novoselic met and decided to form a band. The band had 5 different drummers until they found Dave Grohl. They released their first studio album, Bleach, in 1989, with Chad Channing playing drums.
Which is the strongest muscle in the human body?;If by strongest you mean “ability to exert a force on an external object”, then a human's strongest muscle is his or her 'masseter' muscle. The masseter muscle is a thick muscle in the cheek and is located at the back of the jaw.
Where is man of war buried?;Man o' War died in 1947, and is buried beneath a larger-than-life bronze statue of himself at Kentucky Horse Park, surrounded by the graves of several of his 379 children (he was a prolific stud, unlike today's limp champions).
How many bones does a horse have?;Generally, the horse has 205 bones (54 vertebral column, 36 ribs, 1 sternum, 34 skull, 40 front legs, 40 hindlegs). The number of tail coccygeal vertebrae is usually 18 but can also vary.
Are white tigers real?;White tigers are a sub-species of Bengal tigers and not albino or their own species like many people think. White tigers occur after breeding two Bengal tigers with a recessive gene that controls coat color.
How much money do US Olympic gold medalists get?;The U.S. Olympic Committee awards $25,000 for each gold medal, $15,000 for silver and $10,000 for bronze. But top athletes who are in the top income tax bracket , 39.6 per cent, will have to fork over as much as $9,900 of a gold medal payout.
How many calories are in a Peep?;One serving of Peeps is five chick-shaped pieces, each containing 28 calories. This may not seem like a lot, but almost all of these calories come from sugar (one Peep has 7.2 grams of carbs, 6.8 of which are sugar), meaning they're as empty as it gets.